README.md, before:

# web-2025

## run project

### manually
1. Have php installed.
   - on Windows: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-install-php-in-windows-10/
      - you need to edit `php.ini` to uncomment `extension_dir = "ext"` and `extension=mysqli` lines. (If it's missing make a copy of `php.ini-development` and rename it).
   - alternatively uif you have chocolatey: choco install php (download from here https://chocolatey.org/install, don't forget to run the powershell as an adminstrator)

<br>

2. You need to have mysql server with `dbname='project_manager'`, `host='localhost'`, `username='root'` and `password='root'` (At some stage a Docker file should replace this step).
   - run the script in `sql_script.txt` to initialize the databse

<br>

3. Go to the root of project directory.

<br>

4. run `php -S localhost:8000`


### via Docker

1. Have Docker installed (and have Docker Desktop open)

2. run `docker-compose up --build` in the project root directory

> [!NOTE]
> If you wish to open a shell to the docker use: `docker exec -it web-2025-php-1 sh` or `winpty docker exec -it web-2025-php-1 sh`
>

Commit message:

Add initialization for database data

README.md, after:

# web-2025

## run project

### manually
1. Have php installed.
   - on Windows: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-install-php-in-windows-10/
      - you need to edit `php.ini` to uncomment `extension_dir = "ext"` and `extension=mysqli` lines. (If it's missing make a copy of `php.ini-development` and rename it).
   - alternatively uif you have chocolatey: choco install php (download from here https://chocolatey.org/install, don't forget to run the powershell as an adminstrator)

<br>

2. You need to have mysql server with `dbname='project_manager'`, `host='localhost'`, `username='root'` and `password='root'` (At some stage a Docker file should replace this step).
   - run the script in `sql_script.txt` to initialize the databse
   - run the script in `sql_data.txt` to initialize the data in the database

<br>

3. Go to the root of project directory.

<br>

4. run `php -S localhost:8000`


### via Docker

1. Have Docker installed (and have Docker Desktop open)

2. run `docker-compose up --build` in the project root directory

> [!NOTE]
> If you wish to open a shell to the docker use: `docker exec -it web-2025-php-1 sh` or `winpty docker exec -it web-2025-php-1 sh`
>
